The President: This week,
the United States and our
international international partners finally achieved
something that decades of
animosity has not - a deal
that will prevent Iran from
obtaining a nuclear weapon.
This deal will make America
and the world safer
and more secure.
Still, you're going to hear
a lot of overheated and
often dishonest arguments
about it in the weeks ahead.
So today, I want to take a
moment to take those on one
by one, and explain
what this deal does and
what it means.
First, you'll hear some
critics argue that this deal
somehow makes it easier for
Iran to obtain a nuclear
weapon.
Now, if you think it sounds
strange that the United
States, Great Britain,
France, Germany, Russia,
China, and some of the
world's best nuclear
scientists would agree to
something like that, you're
right.
This deal actually closes
off Iran's pathway to a
nuclear weapon.
Today, Iran has enough
nuclear material to produce
up to 10 nuclear weapons.
With this deal, they'll have
to ship 98% of that material
out of the country - leaving
them with a fraction of what
it takes to make
even one weapon.
With this deal, they'll have
to repurpose two key nuclear
facilities so they can't
produce materials that could
be used for a
nuclear weapon.
So this deal actually pushes
Iran further away from a
bomb.
And there's a permanent
prohibition on Iran ever
having a nuclear weapon.
Second, you might hear from
critics that Iran could just
ignore what's required and
do whatever they want.
That they're inevitably
going to cheat.
Well, that's wrong, too.
With this deal, we will
have unprecedented, 24/7
monitoring of Iran's
key nuclear facilities.
With this deal,
international inspectors
will have access to Iran's
entire nuclear supply chain.
The verification process
set up by this deal is
comprehensive and it is
intrusive - precisely so we
can make sure Iran
keeps its commitments.
Third, you might hear from
critics that Iran faces no
consequences if it
violates this deal.
That's also patently false.
If Iran violates this deal,
the sanctions we imposed
that have helped cripple
the Iranian economy - the
sanctions that helped make
this deal possible - would
snap back into
place promptly.
There's a reason this deal
took so long to negotiate.
Because we refused
to accept a bad deal.
We held out for a deal that
met every one of our bottom
lines.
And we got it.
Does this deal resolve all
of the threats Iran poses to
its neighbors and the world?
No.
Does it do more than anyone
has done before to make sure
Iran does not obtain
a nuclear weapon?
Yes.
And that was our top
priority from the start.
That's why it's in
everyone's best interest to
make sure this deal holds.
Because without this deal,
there would be no limits on
Iran's nuclear program.
There would be no
monitoring, no inspections.
The sanctions we rallied
the world to impose would
unravel.
Iran could move closer
to a nuclear weapon.
Other countries in the
region might race to do the
same.
And we'd risk another war in
the most volatile region in
the world.
That's what would happen
without this deal.
On questions of war and
peace, we should have tough,
honest, serious debates.
We've seen what
happens when we don't.
That's why this deal is
online for the whole world
to see.
I welcome all scrutiny.
I fear no questions.
As Commander-in-Chief, I
make no apology for keeping
this country safe and secure
through the hard work of
diplomacy over the
easy rush to war.
And on Tuesday, I'll
continue to press this case
when I address the national
convention of the Veterans
of Foreign Wars.
Because nobody understands
the true cost of war better
than those who've actually
served in this country's
uniform.
We have before us an
historic opportunity to
pursue a safer, more secure
world for our children.
It might not come around
again in our lifetimes.
That's why we're going to
seize it today - and keep
America a beacon of hope,
liberty, and leadership for
generations to come.
Thank you, and have
a great weekend.